Most days I wish I never met her.

It's true - I wouldn't be who I am today if I hadn't met her. I've done a
fuck-ton of work to like who I am today - guess I'm still working on love. Some
days I do. Although often conditionally. I love myself when productive, when
successful, when chosen by others.

I read once that enlightenment means dissolving these conditions entirely.
Unconditional love expands until self and universe merge, boundaries dissolve,
separation becomes illusion. Not to be confused with the other side of love.
That would be hate.

### The cost of the thing

It’s so hard not to hate her. I can trace almost all deep pain directly to her.
Depths of depressions I’ve not known before meeting her. Feelings of all
consuming, deep rage. Of guilt and shame induced restrictions that make you feel
like the only way out is to end life itself. What’s crazy is that she’s demanded
such a massive space in my head and heart because she’s always going to be the
mother of my kid. And making space for my daughter, means making space for her.
And that shit just gets weird.

It gets weird because on most days I’m not a dad. The cold truth is: there was
no careful mate-selection process. I don't think her mom and I would make it
past one date. A simple conversation would have us conclude that our values are
too different and our vision of a life well lived misaligned. We'd probably
ghost eachother after that date. And yet, there I was. 19, sitting at a
Starbucks right before this 28 year old woman I kinda knew who I'd had a great
conversation with drunk a couple months earlier. Mere moments before her flight
back home from Zaventem, Belgium to Tucson, Arizona. Wresteling. Staring into an
abyss. Restlesslly, frantically even, grapeling with the reality of the question
ringing in my ears as if a second bomb went off. "Are you going to be there for
your future kid?"

The first bomb had gone off three days prior. "I'm pregnant, it's yours - I'm
keeping it." It's in that Starbucks though that the enormity of the question
started to sink in.

What do you say when someone you barley know asks you if you’re ready to be
listed as the father on the birth certificate of an unborn kid that could very
well not be yours. What do you talk about on the calls leading up to the
birthdate because you agreed that you’d stay in touch and see how things go? How
do you give input on the name when none of it is truly your decision? She said
there was a decision that was fully mine. But how the fuck am I supposed to live
with myself if I don't choose to be there for my own kid or at least try? That
hardly seems like a choice.

### Doing the thing right

While it's loud with these questions in your head, everyone around you piles on
noise. I took my mom to a sushi spot because I thought she'd manage her emotions
in public. Boy was I wrong. She let it rip. Her fear, anger, sadness & worry
flooded our table and those next to us. The couple to our right magically ran
out of things to say to eachother and so did the family of 4 to our left who by
the end werent even hiding they were eavesdropping. They were about ready to
voice their opinion. I can't blame them. We were putting up quite the show. As I
was actively untangeling my emtions, I now needed to help my mom make sense of
hers. That looked like peaks of uncontrolled raised voises - "She can't do this
to you" - and valleys of hushed pleas "Think of your future my boy".

My grandpa - who’s the sweetest man alive, pulled me aside (clearly instructed
by my grandma) and angrily - with pointed finger and all - ordered me to not
have anything to do with this "girl”. He proceeded to lecture me on the impact
this would have on my future and the importance of putting true love at the
center of it. It was a lot to take in from a man who has been in a 50y long
loveless marriage & would find all 3 of his kids hardpressed to find more than 5
things they learned from their absent dad. More noise came from friends all
ready with advice, very kind, but useless as they didn't actually have to make
this decision. For them, it was like one of those hypotheticals on a first date
that you both ansswer to see if your compatible or not. A luxury I had forgone.

Very much like that family about to weigh in with their thoughts, everybody
judges you. Most try to hide it but it comes out in small comments, questions or
outrageous, unsolicited pieces of advice hedged with a "do with it what you
will". All of them ego-crushing to a 19 year-old who cared a lot about what
other people thought about him. I wanted time to sort through all these
questions one by one. Time that I didnt have because I needed conviction to
stand up to these judgements. I wanted to say - "I appreciate your advice but
I'm going ahead and deal with it like this." Instead, I was combing through all
these pieces of advice looking for answers that would settle the noise in this
stream of thoughts, feelings & judgements. Like a gold-digger sifting through
what is mostly dirt, looking for gold nuggets with a hope that would make all
his pains go away.

Eventually, my ego died the thousand cut death I was hopeing the gold nugget
would prevent ayway. The irony of it all is that this is the only gold that
there was to be found: "It doesn't matter what they think. It's your life.
You're the only one who has no choice but to live with the person you're
choosing to be. It's 5 min of advice for them, but your choices have a lifetime
of impact for you. You are truly the only one who can make this call." It took
me till today to realise that the ego-death is the nugget.

Unfortunately, I came to only half that insightful conclusion when the answer
mattered most. I couldnt stand the noise anymore and it seemed to dissapear when
I started comitting to decisions. I mostly feared the all consuming guilt. I
feared I was going to wake up and hate the person in the mirror every morning
for not trying to do the hard, but ultimately right thing.

This whole doing the right thing is just fear of guilt masquerading as a noble
ego-story. There are two ways to do the right thing. One is where your gut, head
& heart are in alignment - and one is where they’re not. It took me 8 years, 6
months and 14 days to realize that I’ve made one of the most consequential
decisions in my entire life on a faulty foundation of fear.

### Doing the right thing

TODO:Bring the unconditional love and expansiveness back

Write about how you’re realizing that you chose to show up out of fear for your
own guilt - which is a shaky foundation but now want to learn to show up with
heart, head and gut aligned - which is as a provider, a true dad, a true guide
to his kid and letting that be the guiding light.

Which brings me to today - when I wrote that first sentence on this page. “Most
days I wish I never met her”. That’s on me. It’s not going to change. I’m always
going to be her dad and she’s always going to be her mom. Why risk so much pain
for the next 100 years when all I need to do is flip the story and make the root
not be fear.

I grew up with divorced parents and swore I would never put my kids through
endless bickering and fighting and using the kids as pons. And non-stop talk
about money. Now, I see what a massive price this has. I fully understand the
hate and anger that ruled our family for the first 16 years of my life.

I understand it but I still disagree with it.

Understanding doesn't mean accepting. Understanding means I can see the
mechanics - how fear breeds resentment, how resentment breeds spite, how spite
breeds the kind of toxicity that poisons everything it touches for decades. But
seeing the machine doesn't mean I have to feed it.

The thing about cycles is they're not inevitable. They're just well-worn paths
that feel easier to walk because they're familiar. But familiar doesn't mean
right. And breaking a cycle doesn't happen by accident - it happens by choice,
every single day.

So here's what I'm choosing: I'm choosing to stop showing up as the scared
19-year-old who said yes because he was terrified of saying no. I'm choosing to
stop making decisions from the place of "what will people think if I don't" and
start making them from "what does my daughter need from me."

What she needs isn't my guilt or my fear or my resentment masquerading as
sacrifice. What she needs is a dad who shows up because he wants to be there. A
dad who can look at her mom and see the mother of his child, not the source of
his pain. A dad who can hold space for the complexity without drowning in it.

This doesn't mean pretending the last 8 years didn't happen. It doesn't mean
forgetting the hurt or the anger or the confusion. It means choosing what to do
with those feelings moving forward.

The old story was: I'm trapped in this situation and all I can do is endure it.
The new story is: I'm in this situation and I get to choose how I show up.

That's the difference between reacting and responding. Between being a victim of
your circumstances and being responsible for how you navigate them.

Most days I used to wish I never met her. Today, I'm learning to wish I could
meet this situation - all of it, the beautiful and the broken - with more
courage, more clarity, more love.

Not because it's the right thing to do, but because it's the aligned thing to
do. Because when I imagine my daughter looking back at how her dad handled the
hardest parts of being her dad, I want her to see someone who chose love over
fear, even when love felt impossible.

Especially when love felt impossible.

---

## REWRITE

I was nineteen when she told me she was pregnant.

We sat in a Starbucks near Brussels Airport, three days after she'd dropped the
news. Her flight to Tucson left in an hour. Sitting between us sat two untouched
coffees growing cold. I had a blank stare. My ears ringing while she waited for
an answer to her question of which the heaviness hit me like a bomb: "Will you
be there for the rest of your life of your unborn kid?"

Here's what I knew: We'd slept together, drunk, after a random night out two
months earlier. She was twenty-eight. We'd barely spoken since. She was sure it
was mine, and she'd already decided to keep it.

Here's what I didn't know: Everything else.

Most of the advice I got was run. My mother had already made her position clear
over sushi the night before, her voice rising until neighboring tables stopped
pretending not to listen. "She can't do this to you," she'd said, loud enough
that the couple next to us abandoned their conversation entirely. My
grandfather, the gentlest man I know, cornered me, clearly instruced by my
grandma, with a pointed finger and an uncharacteristic anger: "You stay away
from that girl."

Everyone had advice. Friends treated it like a thought experiment, a
hypothetical first-date question suddenly made real. But they could afford
philosophy. I had forty minutes before her boarding call.

I said yes.

Not because my heart, head, and gut aligned—they were screaming in three
different directions. I said yes because I was terrified of saying no. Terrified
of waking up twenty years later, hating the man in the mirror who'd walked away
from his own child. Terrified of becoming another cautionary tale about young
men who couldn't step up.

Fear dressed up as nobility. I wouldn't understand this for another eight years,
six months, and fourteen days.

My daughter arrived seven months later. Her mother and I tried, failed, tried
again, failed worse. We built a co-parenting arrangement on a foundation of
mutual resentment and unmet expectations. Most days, I'm not a dad — I'm a
visitor in my daughter's life, a dinsey-land dad as her mom calls me, a prisoner
of a choice that was fundamentally not mine as it was not my body that got
pregnant.

The cruel irony: If her mother and I met today, we wouldn't make it through one
coffee date. Our values clash, our visions of a life-well-lived diverge
completely. We'd ghost each other after date one. Instead, we're bound for life,
circling each other with the wary hostility of nations maintaining a cold war
for the sake of shared borders.

I spent years believing I was trapped by circumstance, noble in my suffering.
The story I told myself: I'm doing the right thing, enduring this for my
daughter. The truth took longer to surface: I wasn't enduring for her. I was
enduring because I'd made a choice from fear and couldn't admit it.

My parents divorced when I was five. I grew up in the crossfire of their war—the
bickering, the money fights, the casual cruelty of using children as weapons. I
swore I'd never put my own kids through that. Now I understand how it happens.
Fear breeds resentment. Resentment breeds spite. Spite breeds the kind of
toxicity that poisons generations.

But understanding the machine doesn't mean feeding it.

Today, my daughter is eight. When she asks why Mommy and Daddy don't live
together, I don't give her the rehearsed phrases from the co-parenting books. I
tell her the truth she can handle: Sometimes adults make different choices about
how to live, but we both choose to love her.

What I don't tell her: I'm still learning to make that choice from love instead
of fear.

The nineteen-year-old in that Starbucks thought he had two options - be there or
abandon his child. He couldn't see the third option: Be there differently. Not
as a guilt-driven ghost haunting the edges of his daughter's life, but as a
father who chose presence over perfection, growth over grievance.

I can't change the foundation I built on. But I can choose what to build next.

Most days now, instead of wishing I'd never met her mother, I work on meeting
this moment with more courage. Not because it's the right thing to do — that
framework nearly destroyed me. But because when my daughter looks back on how
her father handled the hardest parts of being her father, I want her to see
someone who operated love over fear. Figured out a way to provide from abundance
rather than defend from scarcity.

Even when love felt impossible. Especially then.
