# **Short description:**

What grew out of this personal question of why we don’t seem to be able to solve our biggest problems, led to an idea. What if we tried to make it easy and desirable for everyone to have & aspire to have massive impact? What if we became rich & famous from impacting each others lives for the better, rather than gathering the most clicks or selling the most product. Would we still have Hunger? War? Climate Disasters? To me, it seemed at least worth investigating if & how we could achieve an economy in which all of us aspired to become impact billionaires. A system that is not just based on fluffy aspirations & moral high ground talk, but an actual upgrade of our socio-economic system & thinking to align incentives with impact for good.

In other words, what if all of us had incentive to really start asking the question: “with my interests & talents, what would it take to impact a billion people’s lives positively?” That to me, is the dream. That’s what I call a purpose economy and that is what The Impact Billionaires aims to enable, globally.

# **Long version:**

### What do I want to do with my life?

I had no clue what the heck I was going to do with my life. As I graduated from high school in 2014, all my friends were deciding on what they were going to go study in University. I remember, we all had to write our choices on a piece of paper & then our high school teachers would discuss & give us some feedback on what they thought about that choice. The advice I got? They urged me to do anything but the choices I had given. I was lost. Truth was, I had no clue what the heck I wanted to go do with the rest of my life. The pressure of committing to this one choice that was going to have such a massive impact on the rest of my life was high to me. I did know that I wanted to do big things. Make a difference. Have impact. But what did that mean? I’d grown up in a privileged bubble. I hadn't seen, done or proven anything - except that I could finish high school, organise a bunch of stuff for the school, and play in a school play ... I decided this was the time for me to go out and see the world. I would go travel & do volunteer work before going off to uni, because when else? I worked in a restaurant for 6 month until I had saved up enough to go travel for at least 6 months. I left in januari 2015 to go “have an impact” wherever I could, learn from new cultures & “find myself” along the way. I had the intention of being back by the summer - having found myself & with clarity on where my life should be headed. You guessed it, that’s not what happened. I ended up travelling for a year & 7 months, I came back bruised & battered but excited from all the adventures that I had gone through in those almost 2 years. Turns out, you can’t “find yourself”. So I decided I would “make myself”, as an app entrepreneur.

### THÉ Plan for my future

A year into my travels, I came up with this idea for an app. This app ended up being the reason I flew home. My future was clear. I was going to become a superstar app entrepreneur as so many people were doing at the time. Over the 6 months I was in Australia, I Wrote a 200 page business plan for it - which google thought me how to write. I was going to convince investors with it and BAM - future made. You guessed it. Not what happened. The investors I gave that business plan to said they wouldn’t even read it. “Who tf writes a 200 page business plan.” I tried to get in one of the easiest accelerator programs to get into here in belgium, 3 different times. I got rejected each time. The app ended up failing big time. However, it did push me to go study computer science.

### Home alone

Yet, now I was home, my crystal clear future not so crystal clear anymore and the same question remained: what the heck am I going to do with the rest of my life? That’s when I entered one of the hardest & loneliest periods of my life to date. I was 19. All of my friends were 2 years deep into their studies and understandably built a life without me playing much of a role in it, I didn’t really have a home anymore as my room had been cleared out as my mom’s at the time manipulative boyfriend had droven a wedge between me and my mom and I had a one night stand that turned into a pregnancy & would eventually become a dad to a little girl that literally lives on the other side of the world - all in the span of 3 months. Great way of easing the pressure on that what-the-heck-am-I-going-to-do-with-the-rest-of-my-life-question.

### Hitting rock bottom

At this point, I was so depressed & paralysed by that question and all the other questions piled on “of what are you gonna do? who are you going to be?” ... that many mornings I didn’t want to wake up at all. Sleep - when you don’t have to be anyone or do anything, became one of my favourite states. Until at one point, around Christmas, 3 weeks before my daughter was about to be born, I remember hitting rock bottom. The cool thing about rock bottom is that you hit this point where you’re either going to push yourself back up - or not. But the choice is binary. Not a million options. So I gave myself a slap in the face and told myself - “enough”. The day after I told myself “enough”, I stumbled across this self-development company called Mindvalley. Call it the universe, god, whatever - but that thing came at the exact right time. Those programs thought me to focus on those things I had control over & become more resilient. I gave my 100% to these self development books & programs.

### Light at the end of the tunnel

One of these programs was a “life goal setting” program called lifebook - that I did very intensively. I wrote 120 pages on 12 different categories on my life on what I believed, what I envisioned, why I envisioned that & what my strategy would be achieve that vision. Distilled from those 120 pages came 3 life goals that to this day give me energy & get me excited. Did I finally find an answer to the what-the-heck-am-I-going-to-do-with-the-rest-of-my-life-question? It sure looked & felt like it. One of those life goals was that I decided that I wanted to become someone who can impact a billion+ people's lives positively. That same drive to do something important. To have impact that had sent me travelling 2,5 years ago, was now fuelling me up once again. As I wrote that life goal down in my journal, excited, happy and filled with energy, a thought crossed my mind: “wow ok so wait, how the heck am I going to impact a billion+ people's lives positively? A billion is A LOT of people. I’m probably going to need to solve a problem that affects A LOT of people if I want to do that.” With 811 million people living in hunger, I thought that would be a good problem to try to solve. So I googled "How to end world hunger?". And all I could find were NGO's asking for donations, big aspirational plans that governments should follow that weren't actually binding layed out by organisations like the UN and I thought to myself, “there must be a better way?”

### Disillusioned

So I started talking to people about my ideas to impact a billion+ people's lives, and then I bumped into another set of challenges. People would talk "down" these ideas as naive or stupid or "if it were possible, people would've already done it". But as I talked & researched more around ideas to impact a billion+ people's lives, I came to the realisation we just aren't incentivised to ask those big questions. If you've got the facebook's of this world paying you 500 000 dollars a year to help think about how people can click on more ads, why would you try to tackle world hunger? What company do you join? An NGO? And make 1/10th of what you'd make at Facebook? No thank you. And the people that do join the NGO's, very often do it from a place of moral high ground - which isn't productive either and in my personal experience makes it a sometimes toxic environment to operate in. My other options would be to try to work at Google X - but you'll only get in with 5 phd's & a proven entrepreneurial track record. I wasn’t going to go for the PHD’s nor did I want to “wait” to start thinking about having massive impact until I had a proven entrepreneurial track record. Last option I could think of was the government, and I'm sure you can make some change happen from there - but defo not at the speed that I want to have that impact. So it was clear that I would keep exploring until I found a fourth option that suited me.

### Embarrassing ambitions

In the beginning of this journey, I was embarrassed. I was embarrassed to admit to myself and out loud that money & a wealthy, high-quality-of-life-personal life was a big part of this equation for me, because it does feel like our current society is forcing us to chose. Either you sell your soul to a corporation and make shit tons of money or you try to save the world at an NGO for no money - neither option worked for me. Also, I was embarrassed in the beginning to talk about the size of my impact ambition - who would take seriously some random white kid who's willing to help 1/7 people in the world when he is barely able to answer the question what he wants to do with his life? I wanted to find people I could relate to with these thoughts & ideas. As I searched for communities to join with the same level of ambition on both impact & income, the NGO communities sometimes even were hurt by my ambition of "oh so what we're doing isn't good enough for you?". And, like I said - the kind of communities that mainly focus on scaling income thought my ideas on impact to be naive.

### Impact Entrepreneurship to the rescue

Then I started to see the first glimpses of making both impact & income work together, in social or impact entrepreneurship. This was at the same time that the book doughnut economics was recommended to me. It all started to make sense, bit by bit. I joined and presided a social entrepreneurial student organisation, where I learned about business models that had socially & environmentally beneficial outcomes while generating economic surplus. My background as a computer scientist made me understand the rise of paradigm shifting technologies such as AI & Blockchain. All this started to make my head spin & my fingers tingle. That’s about when I came up with the term “Impact Billionaire” as an answer to who do I want to be when I grow up? An impact billionaire: Someone with the skill, heart & mindset to impact a billion+ people’s lives. Question by question, the answers started to seep in.

### Driven by purpose once again

This idea & willingness to understand more of impact entrepreneurship became a driver for everything I was doing in my life. It drove my studies - where I was becoming more & more fascinated by the disruptive impact technologies can have on our society. It drove my presidency of this student organisation & the entrepreneurial projects I kept launching on the side. One was a platform to give students meaningful work experience - that idea failed. I launched another idea which is my current digital innovation coaching/consultancy agency called humain.ai, focussed on helping people & their organisations make the most of these paradigm shifting technologies like for example using AI & RPA to automate soul draining, meaningless work.

### One project won’t cut it

We're now a 6 people company & growing. However, as I have been growing that company over the last 3 years, I realised that with only this company, we wouldn’t get to a billion+ people’s lives impacted. Also, my learning rate would be capped by what we’re able to accomplish with “one story” for impact. It was clear to me that if I was going to become someone with the skill, heart & mindset to impact a billion+ people’s lives, I was going to need to be around & enable the execution on A LOT of projects for impact. I thought: “Statistically, if we have & execute on enough ideas with impact & income in mind - there is bound to be a project in there that will end up impacting a billion+ people’s lives. And with every project, I’d be learning more skill, heart & mindsets that could be useful towards becoming an Impact Billionaire. It’s a question of de-risking by pooling resources, keeping the learning curve steep & optimising for impact & income.”

### What I’m building today

“It’s clear I need to bring people with the same ideas together to come up with & work on these ideas”, I thought. So I wanted to create a place where a community could gather to ask big questions, find big answers & turn those into big impact. So as i said before, I tried looking for one - but couldn’t find one. So I decided I would create such a place. How? My first thought was: a podcast. The Impact Billionaires. The first “kind” of people I wanted to attract to the community, are impact entrepreneurs. I realised that there already are a ton of impact entrepreneurs, in my mind people who are asking the right kind of questions when it comes to scaling impact & income, working to have impact today. So if I can find ways for them to scale their impact & income, I’d be learning the lessons with them as we scale our impact & income so we can upgrade society, together.

### The journey I’m inviting you on

The community, with the podcast at the core, is of course but the first step. Over the next couple of years, I'll be building platforms & tools around the 3 core components that I believe are required to have massive impact: Bigger & better questions that lead bigger & better ideas that lead to bigger & better execution. In parallel with the community, I'm working on a open collaboration platform where (aspiring) impact entrepreneurs will be able to easily come together around ideas that could change the world called [openmoonshots.com](http://openmoonshots.com) & complementary to that I'm working on a DAO driven investment syndicate that will, in a smart, scalable & impact-by-design-way enable impact investors to fund the projects on openmoonshots.com

### The journey so far

So far, pushing myself to come up with bigger & better questions, ideas & impact has helped me to look at things from different angles, creating new & faster ways to scale impact & income. Moving away from this initial feeling of guilt & using it as a driver to create a new, better way of doing business has been liberating on a personal front. It’s also been an incredibly rewarding journey as I meet people with the same level of ambition & wild ideas to change the world. It has made me feel less of an "outsider" and its starting to feel like I'm finding "my people". The amount of passionate people I've met through just talking & working on this project is enormous - and it really is just the start. Also the depth with which I've been able to explore some of my crazy ideas & seeing and feeling how doable they turn out to be by sparring with "yes, and" people - meaning people who don't discard your idea from the get go but want to find a way to make it work as bad as you do because they want the same level of impact, has been amazing. The fact that the community is built around asking these better questions without guilt & with encouragement of the biggest, wildest ambitions births & attracts people who share their best strategies to scale impact & income. There's not a shred of doubt in my mind that if I am to learn what it takes to become someone who can impact a billion+ people's lives positively, this is going to be the place.