John Boyd was one of the best dog-fighters the Air Force had ever seen. His nickname was "40-second Boyd" because he could beat anybody within 40 seconds. He is credited with being the father of the F-16, which he helped develop against the will of the Pentagon. Back then, it was all about long-range bombers because atomic bombs were the unquestioned strategy. I see him as the founder of the F16 and the OODA loop. He had a quote that I love: "You're either going to be somebody or do something." Despite his numerous achievements, he was never promoted beyond colonel because he didn't play by the rules. To me, that's peak founder behavior - highly committed to the work and craft with as little ego involvement as possible (be somebody <> do something).

I love him as a founder because everything sprung from a deep obsession and passion for dog-fighting and flying. This led him to go against the odds and study aerospace engineering, after multiple deployments, with three kids at home just to be able to design his own plane (only the most legendary dog-fighting plane to ever exist) while being the top instructor at the top-flight military academy where he also literally wrote the book on dog-fighting. He consistently went against his superiors' orders to work on the F16 and was able to motivate and inspire others to work on it with him, even when they themselves were putting their own careers on the line. John Boyd is an unsung hero who got shit done. Had he started his own company, we would all know him - which, in my eyes, makes him even more of a badass founder because his reward was the work itself.