Hi {{first_name}},

You may have seen this coming. It took me a while to come to grips with this
decision.

I'm shutting down andwho.ai (fka Eden Protocol). Despite traction across 8
intro-ecosystems in the last couple of weeks, there are multiple reasons why
reaching escape velocity soon is unlikely. Low willingness to pay and a tough
cold-start make achieving a reasonable moment of lift that outpaces personal
debts & obligations too improbable to justify gritting over quitting. I've had
to take a contractor role to address these debts over the next 6 months. I'm
optimizing for work at the edge of AI x industry with exceptional co-founder
potential people here in SF. Ideally I'll be in a stronger position to start
something new in 2026 with a validated problem and a trialed co-founder.

Thank you for supporting this journey. Your backing allowed us/me to thoroughly
explore these opportunities, and while this venture didn't succeed, I am
grateful to have had you on this journey with me. This isn't the end. I believe
in playing the long game. I owe you and in many ways I am just getting started.

Practicals

We ran out of money 3 months ago, so there is unfortunately no capital to
return.

The Eden entity will continue to exist for the time being.

I'm available to answer any questions at +1 (520) 780-2861.

3 Lessons learned

I've written a post-mortem and wanted to share 3 lessons distilled from it.

Customer selection is destiny. Communities killed us slowly. They had
treasuries, showed enthusiasm, even paid us - but their dispersed
decision-making meant months of conflicting feedback from different
stakeholders. What looked like traction was actually a mirage: every "yes"
required consensus that would evaporate by the next meeting. We chased feature
requests from vocal members that the broader community never wanted. The signals
that should have warned us were there from day one—no single decision-maker, no
urgency, no real budget owner. We mistook their excitement for product-market
fit when it was just curiosity without consequence.

Great founders have high pain capacity but low pain tolerance. Instead of
recognizing that communities weren't working, we subscribed to the "David
Goggins" philosophy, treating pain as proof we were on the right path. “The
obstacle is the way” became our mantra as we gritted through months of
fledgling-traction. The critical distinction I learned: it's fake resilience if
the way you bear the pain is by powering through, ignoring the messages implied.
True founder strength means feeling the visceral sting of every failed demo,
every ghosted follow-up, every feature request that leads nowhere - and then
acting decisively to eliminate the source. We should have fired our community
customers after month three, not month twelve. By pushing through the pain
instead of responding to it, we weren't being tough. We were being deaf. 

It's the people, stupid. High intelligence, high energy & high integrity. You
can not compromise on any of them, and if you have a hunch they might be, you're
probably right and you're probably already trying to convince yourself that
you're wrong. You can get a lot wrong with the right team. The other way around
is not true.

Happy to share more - just hit reply.

A personal note

The world was a materially different place when we started almost 3 years ago.
DAOs were going to play a pivotal role in a re-architected online economy, which
turned out to be false or early - which in startups means about the same thing.
Our hypothesis that they could be used to build a more effective global talent
allocation protocol in a liquifying labour marketplace died with them.

GPT-3 unleashed a clear paradigm shift of which we've not yet seen the dust
settle. It's the kind of dust in which new planets are born, and fertile ground
for the pivot we needed. Our focus on communities put us in pole position to
bring the best of AI & all the work we'd been doing around reputation in
communities together in an AI-recruiter that taps into the network of the
community to find the best fit for hard to fill roles. Turns out communities are
terrible customers & hiring manager are not dying to recruit from them.

Andwho was the latest major pivot which was born from the observation that top
talent, deals & investments move via referrals + the insight that most of us are
severely under-utilizing our networks and the networks of our networks. It is
clear to me that AI has a role to play in better matching leading to better &
more intros. I can also see a future where we share hiring bounties & commission
with the AI's that helped facilitate those.

Although none of these 3 major bets materialized, I believe these were
worthwhile bets to make and we/I made them with full-force, leaving everything
on the field. Even now, I have ideas that excite me and enough flickers of
traction (what would open-source ai-intro infra look like?) that could fuel me
to keep going. I built so much personal momentum spending almost every waking
hour thinking about these problems & made so many sacrifices in the name of
solving them (time with my daughter, missed weddings, many nights out declined,
romantic relationships deprioritised, ...) which is exactly what makes this
decision hard.

But that also has to mean that this far from the end.

Best, Tom
