## When and how did the founders meet?

We met in the incubation program of Entrepreneur First (www.joinef.com), a global VC with a 10b dollar portfolio and a talent investing thesis that brings together high-potential individuals to co-found companies.

We hit it off from our very first call, 4 weeks before the official start of the EF program. Our thinking was highly complementary - Tom was more conceptual, Miltos very quickly made those concepts concrete. Entrepreneur First pushes you to be very, very intentional about your co-founder relationship. They help you stress test the relationship from multiple different angles. One of the EF sayings is “productivity is traction for teams”. We were churning out & (dis)proving hypotheses at lightning speed. Usually, EF tries to actively break up teams they don’t believe in. We’ve been a team since day one of the program & they have never even tried breaking us up. In our second week of working together, we decided last-minute to attend ETH Amsterdam. On the way back from Amsterdam, we decided to push our co-founder relationship to the max to see if we’d be able to work together for the next  5 - 10 years, so we moved into the same apartment. This step was 6 months ago, and we haven’t looked back since 🤷🏼‍♂️. We spend 24/7 together, building Eden protocol (fka Soil in Developer_DAO) out of our crappy apartment, and we love it. We found a solid foundation in our mutual deep commitment to doing whatever it takes to make Eden happen, our shared deep commitment to growth and impact as well as the ability we share to have highly difficult & emotional conversations in a very productive way.

## When did you start working on this idea and why did you choose it?

We came together around March 2022 with the belief that, “with 85% of people being emotionally disengaged at work, the way we organize work today sucks” and is begging for a significant upgrade. We believed DAOs held a promise to provide more work agency & let work be more purpose-led, so we were determined to find out what would need to be built to realize that promise. By the end of May 2022, we had spent 2 months talking to hundreds of people across DAOs and contributing ourselves. We had given ourselves the challenge to try to have as much impact with the DAOs as we could in those 2 months.

In doing so, we didn’t just hear about the challenges with DAOs, we experienced them first-hand and unfiltered. Soon, we found ourselves leading different initiatives & had experienced the full scope of the DAO talent coordination problem - from trying to find a project to contribute to, to finding relevant contributors for the project we were leading. We coupled these insights with our experiences & belief that everything that’s a platform today, will be a protocol tomorrow.

From then on, we started to dream out loud about what a talent matching protocol would look like, and we saw the huge potential for such a protocol in making work work for us all. We built a proof of concept talent matching bot in 2 weeks that could, once given an input of skills categories, provide a user with relevant projects and people across the DAO, without ever leaving discord. We tested the interest for it in multiple DAOs and once it was confirmed, we scoped out 4 user stories for the MVP and are now releasing it in stages to Developer DAO for further testing.

We had a vision that pulled us, an ability to execute, an edge with our ML & Hybrid-AI knowledge, a DAO willing to give us their biggest grant yet & early user traction with nothing but a crappy PoC. Signals we decided to take as green lights.

## Why are you the right team to solve this problem?

Miltos is a PhD-ML-dropout with previous experience as a senior ML Engineer at multinationals & CTO of multiple startups. At Goldman Sachs, Miltos literally led the team responsible for leveraging knowledge graph convolutional networks to do talent matching. His combination of experiences with full-stack, ML graphs & solidity as well as exceptional leadership & managerial skills makes him the perfect tech lead to realize our vision of building the world’s opportunity protocol.

Tom has been building skill & talent-related startups since 2015. 2015: TMWRK - a geo-location based skill-finding app. 2017-2018: Perspektiv.ai - an AI-driven talent matching platform for students & internships to then finally in 2018: Humain - a 10 person people-driven-innovation agency focussed on helping organizations leverage innovative technology to get the right person in the right place at the right time. The last one he sold in 2021. In 2017, he also built his own blockchain & launched the impact coin on top of that blockchain which helped his Uni reduce their heating bill by incentivizing people to wear sweaters in classrooms. These experiences all seem to be culminating in what they’re building together today. On the one hand, there is the deep technical understanding of both AI & Blockchain (Background in CS, built models & blockchains) on the other there is a deep strategic & business understanding via the consultancy + experience with mechanism design IRL in 2017 that is needed to make a business around these technologies work.

Together - and forgive us for sounding cheesy - we’re like Bonnie & Clyde, Mickey & Minnie, ice cream & warm apple pie. We complement each other where it multiplies our efforts: for ex. Miltos being very concrete,Tom being more conceptual & aligning where a solid foundation is needed - for ex. We both have experience building businesses. We’re extremely excited about each other & about the way we make each other, as well as the people around us, grow. On top of that, we’re ridiculously excited about the new paradigms blockchain & AI enable + have the skills & experience creating a successful 25-strong team of contributors from Developer_DAO & Bankless DAO that have helped us ship our first alpha version of our product, despite having 0 funding. If productivity is traction for teams, we’ve got all the traction in the world.