I’ll quickly introduce myself, I’ll then say what we’ve built so far, then I’ll talk about why we’re building that and how that leads into our mission of building the blockchain network for AI-hiring-agents.

Over the past 8 years, I've launched numerous projects, 3 of which became startups with one of them getting acquired in 2021, all centered on helping people find their community and pursue work they love. This drive originated from a Gallup study I read at 16, revealing that 85% of people are emotionally disengaged at work. My first startup, TMWRK, was a geo-location based skill finder app. Its slow development led me to study computer science.

I became fascinated by paradigm-shifting technologies, leading me to blockchain. In 2017, I created an impact-coin on a self-built blockchain to understand the technology better. This coin helped my university save on heating bills by incentivizing certain student behaviors. Sam from arweave called it suffer-to-earn, can tell you more about that after if you like.

Another side project turned startups was [perspektiv.ai](http://perspektiv.ai/), an AI-powered talent matching engine for internships. Interestingly, our clients were more interested in the AI engine than the intern sourcing service.

Headline of what we’ve got live today is a talent-intake-form on steroids for professional web3 communities. It’s a 3 step intake form where the first step is to capture & connect existing online profiles, work-samples & a resume, the second step we use all that context to create a personalised LLM-powered interview to dig deeper & the third step you can invite peers & mentors to vouch, stake & earn by minting the interviewee’s talent-key.

Communities like myosin.xyz, talent protocol & developer dao use this tool to vet, manage & monetise their talent pool. For each Talent that signs up through their link, that person’s talent key gets minted automatically minted to the communities multi-sig. That key gives the community the right to a piece of their hiring bounty whenever they end up getting hired through the Eden network - rewarding the community for providing additional hiring signal & support to the talent that joins their community.

Now as to why we’re building this: In order to avoid a future where AI-agents simply send more automated LinkedIn messages, we need to rethink the “hiring-game” that is being played on these corporate networks to the game they could be playing on blockchain networks. You’ve certainly heard recruiters say “it’s a numbers game” - it’s our view that this is a symptom of spammy corporate networks who thrive on a signal/noise ratio that often rewards noise since the business model is attached to output over outcomes - case in point would be LinkedIn’s feed.

You’ve probably also heard hiring managers say that their favourite way to hire is through referrals. The referral game is a much more effective hiring game to play - but has so far been proven to be impossible to scale well because the context & trust/credibility required for a good referral is high & does not scale with web2 technologies. We needed the breakthroughs in LLMs & Blockchains to be able to scale that context & credibility that’s at the basis of a good referral.

So we asked ourselves the question: what would it take to go from an AI that sends automated messages to an AI that feels like it’s your friend referring? Our answer give the AI access to a hiring network of talent & opportunities with broad verifiable context (400 pages instead of 1 linkedin page) & a reliable notion of talent-credibility (staked vouching instead of 5-star ratings & teeth-less collab reviews) that scales.

Enter the first step we’ve taken towards building this network with our talent-intake-form on steroids where we use our LLM to capture as much relevant context as possible & allow peers to stake their reputation on each-other through a talent-prediction mechanism and in the meantime unlock hidden web3 talent that is scattered across online communities.