Not many people like recruiters, most people love referrals. We're building the AI that feels like that smart, trustworthy friend with a huge network referring you talent & opportunities. That vision is built on the key insight that referrals work because of two reasons: broad-context on the one hand - as in, the more you know about a talent & the opportunity, the better you can match & staked-reputation on the other hand: you only trust the referral as much as you trust the referrer. We make referral level matching at scale possible through LLM-powered interviews on both sides & on-chain staked-vouching.

Eden's value prop today is that she operates as gateway to scattered & hidden talent in web3 communities. Anyone with a talented audience like Encode Club, Developer DAO or Shefi is incentivised to provide talent liquidity to the Eden network by promoting their unique Eden link. For each talent that interviews through their link, they get a talent-key & are therefore entitled to a piece of the hiring bounty upon hire + it removes the hassle of them having to host their own job-board as the only way to monetise that talent base they built up.

This is exciting because it's an upgrade in our hiring pardigm - from spammy, high-noise recruitment platforms to intentional & high-signal AI-matching-experiences. This will do to recruitment agencies what [booking.com](http://booking.com/) did to travel agencies - disinter mediate incentive mis-aligned middle men. With 85% of people emotionally disengaged at work, there's a huge opportunity to help more people find their people & do work they love, so let’s get to it!